docs/loggers.md, before:

**English** | [中文](loggers_cn.md)

\>\>\> [Back to index](readme.md)

# Loggers

## commandBlock

`/log commandBlock <option>`

Info when a command block or command block minecart executes command

It's useful to find out where the annoying hidden running command block is

With default `throttled` option every command block will log at the highest frequency once every 3 seconds

Attributes:
- Default option: `throttled`
- Suggested options: `throttled`, `all`


## damage

`/log damage <target>`

Info when a living entity gets damage and display how the damage gets calculated

Available logging targets:
- `all`: Log damage from all living entities
- `players`: Log damage with player participation
- `me`: Log damage related to subscriber itself
- `<entity_type>`: Log damage related to specified entity type. e.g. `creeper`
- `<entity_selector>`：Log damage related to entities satisfies the given selector. e.g. `Steve` (player name), `@e[distance=..10]` (`@` selector, requires permission level 2)

Additionally,
- If you append a `->` behind the target string, only damage dealt from the target will be logged
- If you append a `->` in front of the target string, only damage dealt to the target will be logged
- If you contact 2 target strings with a `->`, only damage dealt from the former target to the latter target will be logged

Target examples:
- `->me`: Damage dealt to the subscriber itself
- `->creeper`: Damage dealt to creeper
- `vex->`: Damage dealt from vex
- `zombie`: Damage from / to zombies
- `minecraft:zombie`: The same as `zombie`
- `me->zombie`: Damage from the subscriber to zombies
- `->@e[distance=..10]`: Damage dealt to entities within 10m of the subscriber 

Attributes:
- Default option: `all`
- Suggested options: `all`, `players`, `me`, `->creeper`, `vex->`, `me->zombie`, `Steve`, `@e[distance=..10]`


## item

`/log item <events>`

Info when something happens to an item entity, for example item despawned after 5min

Available events:
- `create`: An item entity is created in the world for any kinds of reason. Stack trace is included in the message
- `die`: An item entity died
- `despawn`: An item entity despawned

Use csv format, like `despawn,die` for logging multiple events

Available option separators: `,`, `.` and ` ` (`.` is the only choice in 1.14.4 version)

Attributes:
- Default option: `despawn`
- Suggested options: `despawn`, `die`, `despawn,die`


## lifeTime

`/log lifeTime <entity_type>`

A HUD Logger

Displays the current lifetime statistic of specific entity type from the [LifeTime Tracker](commands.md#lifetime) in the dimension the player is in

The logging options is required to be an available entity type

Attributes:
- Default option: N/A
- Suggested options: All available entity types in current's lifetime tracking


## lightQueue

`/log lightQueue`

A HUD logger for debugging light suppression. It displays the following information of the lighting task queue:

- Average task accumulation speed
- Current light queue size. Indicating with symbol `S`
- Estimated duration of light suppression if the light suppressor is switched off now. Indicating with symbol `T`
- Average task enqueuing speed
- Average task executing speed

The sampling duration can be specified with rule [lightQueueLoggerSamplingDuration](rules.md#lightqueueloggersamplingduration), default 60gt

Specify the logging option to select the world you want log its light queue, like `/log mobcaps`

Attributes:
- Default option: `dynamic`
- Suggested options: `dynamic`, `overworld`, `the_nether`, `the_end`


## memory

`/log memory`

Display current consumed and total memory of the server in HUD

Attributes:
- Default option: N/A
- Suggested options: N/A


## microTiming

`/log microTiming <type>`

Log micro timings of redstone components. The ticket of the chunk the component is in needs to be at least lazy-processing (ticket level 32)

Check rule [microTiming](rules.md#microtiming) for detail. Remember to use `/carpet microTiming true` to enable logger functionality

Available options:
- `all`: Default value, log all events
- `merged`: Log all events and merged continuous same events
- `unique`: Log the first unique event in every gametick

Attributes:
- Default option: `merged`
- Suggested options: `all`, `merged`, `unique`


## mobcapsLocal

**Available in Minecraft 1.18.2+**

`/log mobcapsLocal [<player>]`

A HUD Logger

Like carpet's mobcaps logger, but what it displays is the local mobcap of the specified player

If no player is specified, it will display the local mobcap of the subscriber

Attributes:
- Default option: N/A
- Suggested options: Names of all online players


## movement

`/log movement <target>`

Info when a living entity tries to move and display how the actual movement gets calculated

`<target>` is an entity selector. Make sure you have selector the necessary targets or expect log spam (`@` selector requires permission level 2)

Additionally, appending `non_zero:` as the prefix in the `<target>` string will filter out those logs whose final movement vector is 0

Attributes:
- Default option: `non_zero:@a[distance=..10]`
- Suggested options: `non_zero:@a[distance=..10]`, `@s`, `non_zero:@e[type=creeper,distance=..5]`, `Steve`


## phantom

`/log phantom <options>`

With option `spawning`, it informs when someone spawns a wave of phantoms

With option `reminder`, it reminds you when you haven't slept for 45min or 60min

Attributes:
- Default option: `spawning`
- Suggested options: `spawning`, `reminder`, `spawning,reminder`


## raid

`/log raid`

Info when these raid related events happen:

- A raid has been created
- A raid has been invalidated
- The bad omen level of a raid has been increased
- The center Position of a raid has been moved

Attributes:
- Default option: N/A
- Suggested options: N/A


## scounter

`/log scounter <color>`

It's a HUD logger

Similar to carpet's `counter` logger for its hopper counter, this logger is used for showing items output from infinity item supplier hoppers created by rule [hopperNoItemCost](rules.md#hoppernoitemcost)

Attributes:
- Default option: N/A
- Suggested options: All dye color names


## ticket

`/log ticket <types>`

Info when a ticket is created or removed

Use csv format, like `portal,dragon` for logging multiple types of ticket

Available option separators: `,`, `.` and ` ` (`.` is the only choice in 1.14.4 version)

**Warning:** Logging `unknown` ticket may make you get spammed

Attributes:
- Default option: `portal`
- Suggested options: `portal,dragon`, `start`, `dragon`, `player`, `forced`, `light`, `portal`, `post_teleport`, `unknown`


## tickWarp

`/log tickWarp <option>`

A HUD logger to display to progress of current tick warping

It only shows up when the server is tick warping

See [/tick warp status](commands.md#warp-status) command for displaying more details of tick warp

Attributes:
- Default option: `bar`
- Suggested options: `bar`, `value`


## turtleEgg

`/log turtleEgg`

Logs when a turtle egg is trampled to broken

Attributes:
- Default option: N/A
- Suggested options: N/A


## xporb

`/log xporb <events>`

Basically the same as [item logger](#item) but logs experience orb entities

Commit message:

damage logger enhanced: use `<->` as a bidirectional target connector

docs/loggers.md, after:

**English** | [中文](loggers_cn.md)

\>\>\> [Back to index](readme.md)

# Loggers

## commandBlock

`/log commandBlock <option>`

Info when a command block or command block minecart executes command

It's useful to find out where the annoying hidden running command block is

With default `throttled` option every command block will log at the highest frequency once every 3 seconds

Attributes:
- Default option: `throttled`
- Suggested options: `throttled`, `all`


## damage

`/log damage <target>`

Info when a living entity gets damage and display how the damage gets calculated

Available logging targets:
- `all`: Log damage from all living entities
- `players`: Log damage with player participation
- `me`: Log damage related to subscriber itself
- `<entity_type>`: Log damage related to specified entity type. e.g. `creeper`
- `<entity_selector>`：Log damage related to entities satisfies the given selector. e.g. `Steve` (player name), `@e[distance=..10]` (`@` selector, requires permission level 2)

Additionally,
- If you append a `->` behind the target string, only damage dealt from the target will be logged
- If you append a `->` in front of the target string, only damage dealt to the target will be logged
- If you contact 2 target strings with a `->`, only damage dealt from the former target to the latter target will be logged

Besides `->`, you can also use `<->` as a bidirectional target connector to log damages between the two targets

Target examples:
- `->me`: Damage dealt to the subscriber itself
- `->creeper`: Damage dealt to creeper
- `vex->`: Damage dealt from vex
- `zombie`: Damage from / to zombies
- `minecraft:zombie`: The same as `zombie`
- `me->zombie`: Damage from the subscriber to zombies
- `me<->zombie`: Damage between the subscriber and zombies
- `->@e[distance=..10]`: Damage dealt to entities within 10m of the subscriber 

Attributes:
- Default option: `all`
- Suggested options: `all`, `players`, `me`, `->creeper`, `vex->`, `me->zombie`, `Steve`, `@e[distance=..10]`


## item

`/log item <events>`

Info when something happens to an item entity, for example item despawned after 5min

Available events:
- `create`: An item entity is created in the world for any kinds of reason. Stack trace is included in the message
- `die`: An item entity died
- `despawn`: An item entity despawned

Use csv format, like `despawn,die` for logging multiple events

Available option separators: `,`, `.` and ` ` (`.` is the only choice in 1.14.4 version)

Attributes:
- Default option: `despawn`
- Suggested options: `despawn`, `die`, `despawn,die`


## lifeTime

`/log lifeTime <entity_type>`

A HUD Logger

Displays the current lifetime statistic of specific entity type from the [LifeTime Tracker](commands.md#lifetime) in the dimension the player is in

The logging options is required to be an available entity type

Attributes:
- Default option: N/A
- Suggested options: All available entity types in current's lifetime tracking


## lightQueue

`/log lightQueue`

A HUD logger for debugging light suppression. It displays the following information of the lighting task queue:

- Average task accumulation speed
- Current light queue size. Indicating with symbol `S`
- Estimated duration of light suppression if the light suppressor is switched off now. Indicating with symbol `T`
- Average task enqueuing speed
- Average task executing speed

The sampling duration can be specified with rule [lightQueueLoggerSamplingDuration](rules.md#lightqueueloggersamplingduration), default 60gt

Specify the logging option to select the world you want log its light queue, like `/log mobcaps`

Attributes:
- Default option: `dynamic`
- Suggested options: `dynamic`, `overworld`, `the_nether`, `the_end`


## memory

`/log memory`

Display current consumed and total memory of the server in HUD

Attributes:
- Default option: N/A
- Suggested options: N/A


## microTiming

`/log microTiming <type>`

Log micro timings of redstone components. The ticket of the chunk the component is in needs to be at least lazy-processing (ticket level 32)

Check rule [microTiming](rules.md#microtiming) for detail. Remember to use `/carpet microTiming true` to enable logger functionality

Available options:
- `all`: Default value, log all events
- `merged`: Log all events and merged continuous same events
- `unique`: Log the first unique event in every gametick

Attributes:
- Default option: `merged`
- Suggested options: `all`, `merged`, `unique`


## mobcapsLocal

**Available in Minecraft 1.18.2+**

`/log mobcapsLocal [<player>]`

A HUD Logger

Like carpet's mobcaps logger, but what it displays is the local mobcap of the specified player

If no player is specified, it will display the local mobcap of the subscriber

Attributes:
- Default option: N/A
- Suggested options: Names of all online players


## movement

`/log movement <target>`

Info when a living entity tries to move and display how the actual movement gets calculated

`<target>` is an entity selector. Make sure you have selector the necessary targets or expect log spam (`@` selector requires permission level 2)

Additionally, appending `non_zero:` as the prefix in the `<target>` string will filter out those logs whose final movement vector is 0

Attributes:
- Default option: `non_zero:@a[distance=..10]`
- Suggested options: `non_zero:@a[distance=..10]`, `@s`, `non_zero:@e[type=creeper,distance=..5]`, `Steve`


## phantom

`/log phantom <options>`

With option `spawning`, it informs when someone spawns a wave of phantoms

With option `reminder`, it reminds you when you haven't slept for 45min or 60min

Attributes:
- Default option: `spawning`
- Suggested options: `spawning`, `reminder`, `spawning,reminder`


## raid

`/log raid`

Info when these raid related events happen:

- A raid has been created
- A raid has been invalidated
- The bad omen level of a raid has been increased
- The center Position of a raid has been moved

Attributes:
- Default option: N/A
- Suggested options: N/A


## scounter

`/log scounter <color>`

It's a HUD logger

Similar to carpet's `counter` logger for its hopper counter, this logger is used for showing items output from infinity item supplier hoppers created by rule [hopperNoItemCost](rules.md#hoppernoitemcost)

Attributes:
- Default option: N/A
- Suggested options: All dye color names


## ticket

`/log ticket <types>`

Info when a ticket is created or removed

Use csv format, like `portal,dragon` for logging multiple types of ticket

Available option separators: `,`, `.` and ` ` (`.` is the only choice in 1.14.4 version)

**Warning:** Logging `unknown` ticket may make you get spammed

Attributes:
- Default option: `portal`
- Suggested options: `portal,dragon`, `start`, `dragon`, `player`, `forced`, `light`, `portal`, `post_teleport`, `unknown`


## tickWarp

`/log tickWarp <option>`

A HUD logger to display to progress of current tick warping

It only shows up when the server is tick warping

See [/tick warp status](commands.md#warp-status) command for displaying more details of tick warp

Attributes:
- Default option: `bar`
- Suggested options: `bar`, `value`


## turtleEgg

`/log turtleEgg`

Logs when a turtle egg is trampled to broken

Attributes:
- Default option: N/A
- Suggested options: N/A


## xporb

`/log xporb <events>`

Basically the same as [item logger](#item) but logs experience orb entities
